So what if we wanna write the file?
For example, when I write
the second file with some content,
actually, it's relatively similar.
So for that, I'm going to create
another file the same package.
Can I have more than one
file in your package?
Yeah, you can have as
many files as you want.
In fact, look at this.
Have I used the name reader anywhere?
No, this can be go, like that,
and it works anyway.
File names are not important for
the compiler.
We don't use file names.
The name of the go file doesn't matter.
What matters is the name of the package.
We teach you a couple of questions,
but no one asks yet.
But can we have packages in subfolders?
Can I create a hierarchy of packages?
The first quick answer is no.
The idea is to keep only
one level of packages.
Then you can organize your
packages by the name.
Because they are part of this project or
the other project, okay.
But the idea is not to have fileutils,
reader, fileutils,
in the file system at least.
Internally, you can work with the string,
so
it feels like it's a sub-package, okay?
But actually, it doesn't work.
There is something known as internal, not
when you get there because it's an advance
and not really something
that we use a lot in Go, but
a package can have
an internal sub-package.
There's another package that works only
for that package, something like that,
like a private package.
It's only one, it's called internal.
And it's for a more advanced situation,
so we won't cover that.
Okay, so
within the same fileutils package,
I'm not going to create another package.
I could, but let's use fileutils for both.
I'm going to create a new file for
the writer.
is given an error why?
Because that file must
contain the same pack
cache name as the other
files in the folder.
Okay, and in this case,
we're going to create another function.
So we create a function export
the function right to fire but
we received filename and
the content as a string.
And maybe in this case,
we can return an error or nil.
So we don't need the pair
because we are not returning
any value but
we may we may return an error.
In this case we are going
to call OLS right file.
When I press Enter,
you will see it will add import OS for me.
And we already have the file name.
And we just need to pass the content.
The problem is the content that right file
is expecting is actually in slice of byte.
Okay, so yeah, and we have the string.
Fortunately for us because we can convert
a slice of a string into Slice of VITs,
we can do the reverse operation as well.
So we use the name of the type is slice
of white, and we use that as a function.
Because it's a function name
starting with with a symbol,
which is weird, but it works, okay.
Remember I mentioned that
the documentation is actually
available in the CLI.
So you can say go doc,
nothing appear because say go when
you say doc,
it show documentation for a package.
So the next step is to add the package.
So go doc, the package is OS.
Then go doc, OS, write file, and
it give me the information.
So sometimes it's faster to go and
type that, in case you don't have the IDE,
the IDE is not working,
you can use the CLI to actually get the
documentation of one specific function.
But in this case,
I think I would prefer to go and
try to read this directly
from the document.
I want to show you the example
that they are mentioning here,
so we go to learn, sorry,
dogs standard library.
We get into OS, the OS and within the OS,
we look for me decrease the font
size a little bit to get the menu.
So I can get all the functions here.
Let's search for right file because
I typically have an example.
So you can see we have
the devils in the details.
Well in this case, the devil is in
the sample because we have 0666
as the permission number that you
see because this is using flags.
So we need to apply several flags at once.
We need to match the flags
binary intersection.
It doesn't matter.
We can try this to see if that works
that value should work on every OS,
is one of the standard
permissions that you use.
Okay, so this is returning me, an error.
So then I can check.
I can just,
even I don't need to greet the buyer.
Well, I can just return this,
because it's exactly the type
that we are returning here.
Nothing fancy actually, but
at least you can now call write file.
For example,
you can take the same file called
fileutils write to file to the same file.
So I could create a variable with that so
let's say this is the file path
:= to create a variable and
then we will write to the same file but
I'm going to add a .output.txt so
it's another file not the same file.
For the content I can use I'm
going to create a new content,
And I'm going to do something
like this like the original.
Is C and then I wanna double
the original is C and another C.
But you can see that doing this,
it's okay, we can concatenate the strings.
It looks weird.
We are used to templating, okay?
So remember that we have,
from the font library, we have the Printf.
But Printf is printing to the console.
And I want to say something
similar to the string.
Well, for that, the format
library actually has a solution.
It's called Sprintf.
S of have a string.
So it's going to return a string with
a format with the same format as printf.
And be careful because now we have
the S and then print is lowercase.
So if you don't if that what
I'm doing give me a second and
you will get it, so
I'm going to go format s printf and
the format will be a value.
Then it can be in a new line,
or it can say original, colon,
the value, and
then you can say double original.
I'm just duplicating the same thing,
percentage v percentage v, so
I need to pass 3 arguments, and
the three arguments are actually the same.
C, C and C, that is actually the original
string remember that they are reading.
So the output is going to be original,
colon, the original text,
a new line that will original and
twice the same text.
But I'm using, The printf format.
To generate a string that is pretty
useful every time you are creating
complex messages or something like that,
we use sprintf from the format library.
Actually, this is the library
that we use the most for.
Does it make sense?
We will use this two format.
Outputs for example I mean it's not the
case I will delete this in a minute but
if you need to print you have
a variable with a price again and
the price is it's a real number.
And you need to print this okay or
you wanna save a string
version of it string price.
If you say a string of 34 or
3 is not going to work,
it's not doing that conversion.
Even if you print that,
it will print things like this.
Yeah, I don't want that for a price.
So a simple way to make a conversion
is to talk to format Sprintf,
and because it's s printf will receive any
kind of value, it can receive also float.
So I can say f with the price.
And also I can say you know what,
I want only two decimals and
you use for that dot 2% dash the 2 F
that's a float, only with two decimals.
And then you have a string.
Again, not for this particular sample in
particular, but it's another usage for
Sprintf.
It's a quick way to make
conversions to a string, and
to format different values into strings.
>> Okay, make sense?
Any question?
This was to play with the OS a little bit,
to see the error management in action,
how that works,
how to receive two arguments, and
also to use just because
we're here Sprintf.
That we used the same print with format,
but
instead for output to the console
to receive a string that's
the idea
>> A couple of questions on or
clarifications on packages
should package names and
directories always have the same
>> Nope, in fact,
you can see here it says fileutils.
Let me change that now to FileIO,
and everything works.
The only thing I need to change is the,
what I need to change here.
No, I need to change anything.
I think it's.
Okay, so because here the important part
is the package name the way to change
that I can of course if you do the change
both package names you have the same name.
And now I need to change also the main
because yeah it's a different by the way,
can I change the name here but
not the alias?
I can, and for that,
I keep the alias like so.
So we use a space, and this is
an alias because if not, by default,
it's going to use the last
part of the path.
FileIo, okay, that makes sense?
So if you want to you can do this.
And for that if you don't like
format you can call it f but yeah,
no we don't do that.
But we can do that with our own
package name in case you want to.
So if I change to file IO,
I should also change the reference here.
And now we are good.
You said a couple of questions.
Do have alias description just
answered the second question [LAUGH].
Okay, by the way, now that we
have more than one import here,
we have something new that
we haven't seen before.
We have a parenthesis here.
You see that?
I mean, you can guess what's going on.
But this is called a block.
So in this case an import block.
So you can import two things in two
different lines, or you can create
an import block where you use parentheses,
not curly braces, parentheses.
And then inside you put all the values.
And we can also call blocks for variables.
Well, yeah, it can be constant as well.
So not for functions.
We can say bar, and
then we create a as an integer, and
n as a string, and
then you just use bar ones.
It's not a big deal, [LAUGH] but
you can create these blocks as well.
At package level only,
not within the function at package level.